For this assignment, my approach was fairly straight forward. I used argparser to get the command line arguments provided and then parse the FTP URL using urllib.parse so I can use different parts of the URL easily. With this information I opened a socket that would be the control channel and loged into the server with the username and password from the URL. After this I just made several if statements for each command where a helper function would be called to execute the FTP command. After this I basically took the recommended approach from the project description. I started with creating and removing a directory since these did not require seperate data channels. They were fairly straight forward since it was just sending a command to the server and receving the response. When I needed to open a new data channel like for listing a directory, I opened a new socket for the data channel then sent the PASV command through the control socket to actually open the data channel. After that I defined a pattern of paranthesis so I could access the IP and port from the server response using the re library. I then split the IP and Port by commas and connected the socket. Lastly I sent the FTP command through the control socket and received the response from both channels. My approach for the other functions that needed a new data channel was pretty much the same except for uploading and downloading a file. For those functions I would send the data from the file through the data channel then either read the file to upload it, or write it to download it. 

Quite honestly the biggest challenge for this assignment was getting started. Besides cp and mv, all the functions were pretty straight forward and once i figured out how to properly parse and list the command line arguments, I figured everything out fairly easily. Mostly because it was very similar to the last assignment which did help set a very good foundation for sockets. I will say cp and mv were definitely a bit of a challange figuring out how to actually upload all the data as well download it. At first I was getting file download errors but the file was downloading, just without the actual contents of it or it would be incorrect contents. What really helped get past this was looking at the FTP error code and using that to figure out my issue.

In terms of testing I just used print statements to make sure I was always sending the right path, directory, filename etc. I even made the receiveResponse() function to receive and print the response for debuggin. But the best tool for testing and debugging the server responses was easily the error codes. That sent me in the right direction every time and helped make debugging so much easier. 